---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/umamusume-global/discord-early-faq/intermediate-training-tips-or-ideas-to-get-you-started/","created":"2025-06-27T22:41:13.730+07:00","updated":"2025-07-21T00:28:28.576+07:00"}
---

Go play the game first. These ideas are just starting points that you might not be thinking about yet, and will NOT help you very much without some experience with the basic gameplay loop.

- Remember that you're not just playing this turn, you're also playing for the next few turns together. This mostly applies to energy management. Floating some spare room in your energy bar is usually not a bad idea, since you can get random events that gives you energy. However, it is pretty important that you are at ***maximum energy going into summer camp (First half of July)***. Also note that you will get a guaranteed +20 and +30 energy event at classic and senior new years respectively, and and a high chance of at least +20 energy in senior late Jan. Another idea is that sometimes clicking a mediocre training is worse than clicking a bad wit training or resting. If you are likely to have a better turn on the next turn than what you have now and clicking train on the current turn will bring you low enough to risk failing on the next turn, it often is better to rest or click wit instead. Speaking of alternatives to mediocre turns.....

- Racing is actually an option. And it is quite good. Racing on average takes 15 energy (click top option), and is your main source of skill points. Your training clicks at this point will give you the ballpark of 2-10 skill points, a race can give you 50 or more. There's three different tiers of races when it comes to rewards, Grade 1 (G1), Grade 2 and 3 (G2, G3), and Open/Pre-open. The higher the grade, the more stats and SP you will get. A good rule of thumb is that a race, especially a G1, is a better click than a single card appearing in training (even if a rainbow) for most of the run. Do note however, that you still need to be winning these races, and they do not have very high stat gains. In some cases you will be clicking singular speed rainbows simply to raise the stat.